all right this is green and in web
browser sweetly call for 24th of July
2018 and we meet again to talk about
cookies and web browsers the trick that
I want to go over agenda to make sure or
interest it would be my pleasure thank
you for passing passing the opportunity
along my way let me share my screen and
apologies if you can hear the person
working on their yard behind me ah
the first item on the agenda we have
today is to follow up last week's
discussion around ways to load web UI it
turns out there are so many ways and
each of them have their roses at their
thorns yeah so only it was not able to
join us today but I can give a short
summary of where we are
so basically the problem was we were
loading web UI from the Gateway port to
deliver the latest version to activist
companion users and the problem that
came with loading from the gateway port
was that the gateway port and API port
have different origins so you had to
deal with cross origin security and
companion just lifted lifted off that
limitation but that was like an
additional code that we need to maintain
and make sure it works correctly so the
plan was to first stop shipping
hard-coded theory of the latest web UI
with companion and instead delegated to
slash web UI path at the API port on the
jcpoa face or go ahead of us and that
way people would just use the version
that was
lest by that specific release and that
would both solve the problem on the
companion site but also would solve
potential regressions between in the
latest web UI when it does not work with
older go ipfs or JSA PFS for some reason
so that's the thing that I sort of I
think I implemented the PR and that's
ready to merge and there's no technical
blockers on that front the problem is
when we want to give people a way of
testing the latest web UI the idea was
to in whitelist apart from the CID
specific CID on the API part we wanted
to also allow people to load the latest
version using DNS link on web UI dot
ipfs io but that one sort of introduced
potential security problem when we have
when we have a person in a cafe and that
there's a malicious DNS server returning
a different DNS link right now go idea
files and jessup EFS are using DNS
resolvers provided by the operating
system and there's no way to tell if
that DNS query went over encrypted like
DNS over TLS DNS over HTTP or maybe
plaintext and usually it's just the NS
over plaintext so above people can look
what you querying and as well they can
provide a rogue DNS server that
introduces a different response and that
way make your go ideas provide you with
different web UI so the plan for that is
to put brakes on those PRS for loading
web UI from IP ans from using DNS link
and until we have a support for DNA like
encrypted the
so the minimum thing we need is to
ensure go ipfs does not use unencrypted
dns from operating system and we need to
switch to something like DNS over TLS or
DNS over HTTP ensure when we make a
lookup for DNS link we get that from
trusted recursive resolver similar
something similar like DNS over HTTP
feature in Firefox
I believe that's more or less the story
on my end I'll ship that first patch
which falls back to the web UI provided
by go ipfs with the next activist
companion better release and the PR that
enabled enables people to opt into the
IP Ana's is also ready to merge the way
I made it is eat the text it detects
that the IP NS path is not supported and
falls back to the old one so we can ship
that but it won't work so for now I
probably Park it wait for those changes
in go ipfs I think that's all on this if
there are any questions I'm happy to
answer can you can you explain what what
we get from these changes and also that
even once you solve the do H like you
let's say you solve the unencrypted DNS
problem to ensure that it is encrypted
do we still have compatibility problems
if there's other IPS nodes running that
aren't new we're maybe in don't support
this is there a compatibility backward
compatibility fallback mmhmm yeah so
there are no problems when it comes to
like running companion against alder
fashion that does not support this
everything it's more or less yet fully
backwards compatible because it's we
were following we are switching back to
the the old way so even the oldest OFS
will work
that problem with the problem with DNS
is that right now we just assumed when
we do DNS linked lookup we just assume
it's it's valid the truth is that most
of people use unencrypted DNS server
provided by their ISPs so it's not like
there's a compatibility problem for the
go IGFs is just a peg it does not know
who resolved that it just asked
operating system for name for IP for
that name or txt record and gets it so
that's like well so this will actually
be marginally safer oh that will be a
lot safer because you will no longer
leaked information about DNS linked
websites you visit you visit and you
will be sure that the actual DNS link
record was not tampered between you and
the DNS resolver that you have
configured in go ipfs so the idea is
there will be some like a trusted
resolver hosted by us or just one of the
big public ones but there will be an
option for people to just pick their own
and my idea is to focus on DNS over
HTTPS because we will need that and we
actually have support for that I believe
Hugo already implemented that for IP NS
over DNS work so we already have a
working example of DNS resolver in a web
browser using DNS over HTTP we just
don't use that as a global default for
entire IP FS not so I believe that will
benefit everyone if we just switch
antinode
fantastic thank you is there anything
else that is this primarily a change for
local security and reducing surface
attack surface for a man-in-the-middle
and tempering and tracking so like on
the companion site it's mostly about
removing the maintenance burden it's
like we remove the code that was
responsible for all the orchestration
but for regular users total it improves
security especially if we add like
hardened DNS to both go and J's that
will totally put a veil of secrecy on
what the enhancing websites you are
visiting basically I like that
we move on to the next agenda
this next agenda item is content and
pure discovery in browsers it looks like
there are some changes happening here I
mean if I can pick this one as well yeah
so that we created a proposal to sunset
the star protocols and the star
protocols are our old-school way of
those are providing like a signaling and
rendezvous points for nodes in web
browser and we have better ways more
federated ways to do those things either
those better ways are already
implemented or the spec exists but still
all our main dogs and if a person starts
working with Jess ipfs in web browser
context and they want to enable their
node to discover other peers using the
star protocols is actually the default
we announcing or our like code examples
even in the readme objects ipfs I
believe so that's sort of like
unfortunate thing that we still use
those short work runs from years back
and we don't push those new better more
federated decentralized solutions
through the finish line so that's like a
proposal to sunset the start protocols
it's basically a way to stop signaling
the community that we will be moving
away from them it will take some time
and I believe we will need a new
infrastructure for more decentralized
federated infrastructure for those new
solutions such like such less like
rendezvous protocol and the really
protocol so it's just to put it on the
map
and that's that will the start protocols
are solving content and peer discovery
right now so that's why it's under this
topic and the second leg under this
topic is how we can improve delegated
through thinking web browser so
delegated routing is one of solutions to
replace start protocols the way it works
is you delegate some queries such as
like asking PhD for peers that have this
CID or maybe profile publishing a record
that you can provide this specific cid
to people if they want to so delegated
routing we have like a modules for
delegated routing for content and Spears
and the problem or challenge is that it
needs to be it will be mostly used in
web browser and web browsers come with
some challenges the way delegated
routing works is basically you specify a
list of web service endpoints that your
JS ipfs node will get when you delegate
some commands and the way web browsers
handle requests to remote origins is
that you have a limit of I think I
believe it's like six concurrent
connections per host and also we have
some commands such as preload like
recursive preload of a big data set may
take some time which means that one
request will hang for a long long long
time taking one of those six slots so
it's like ongoing challenge to tweak
delegated to routing modules to work
better in web browser one way is to
throttle the number of concurrent
requests I believe those PR already
landed the next step is to
support like timeouts for those
long-running requests because like in
web browser context we will if we hit
like more than 5 6 preload requests that
take too much time those requests will
basically block everything else and
nothing else will get delegated so that
those are more or less challenges and I
believe I mentioned delegated routing in
the context of Sun setting star
protocols as a like in the illustration
that it's like an ongoing effort we need
to land those new solutions make sure
those solutions work there's like a
default public infrastructure and
instructions for other people to run
their own either delegated routing nodes
or like relays and then at some time we
will switch from start protocols
I believe that's more or less the story
behind that if anyone is interested
there's more in there I have a question
do we have an understanding of kind of
what the performance ceiling will be
able to get out of this like if we if I
think that the WebRTC basics connection
cap was actually or increased to 20 or
something like that and some browsers
but do we have an understanding of how
close these types of optimizations like
adding timeouts and throttling
concurrent requests will get us because
it seems like the nature of those kind
of reduces the amount of overall network
throughput or activity that is available
at a given time so if we if we do
everything that we think is possibly
able to be done there how much faster
will content and peer discovery possibly
be are you asking about like
specifically delegated routing through
like some third party yes I think that's
a delegated reading is pretty much like
that that's the biggest opportunity that
we have for its in browser knows yeah
it's like for for the short term totally
that will be the fastest thing it's like
more sort of like a preload on steroids
and that's just like regular HTTP
requests so it does not like use WebRTC
or or and think it just delegates API to
some our remote a HTTP API so that's
like a short-term fix so people can run
their own delegated Reuters performance
improvements during the main
improvements the main improvement from
this will be when you add content to
your node in web browser that content
will get it will be provided through the
network using delegated node which means
all nodes that were not able to reach
you before because you were running in
web browser and you were not opening
ports those nodes now will be able to
reach and fetch that content because the
way delegated content routing works when
you execute like the provide method it
will ask the delegate node to fetch that
data from you and then publish it to and
it will automatically publish it to the
HT that it's providing into the network
so in fact someone else wants to get
that data they will reach and get
informed that this delegated node has
this content so it's more about solving
the problem of content being actually
reachable than improving some metrics if
it makes sense yeah
again it sorry they notice they couldn't
reach you because you're running a
browser before they're able to get that
wanted that content so somehow they got
access to that cid on the band's they
asked for that's the ID they can get it
from the delegated nodes that you asked
to hold that for you yep yep and like a
almost seems like a a vaguely pinning
ish yeah it's like asking your nodes to
please make this content available yeah
it's like you ask that node to fetch the
content from you because you have
delegated node in your boot strap node
so you are always connected to it so
that note is able to fetch the content
from you
and then it's placed in the cash in the
ripple repo of that note so until the
garbage collection cycle hits that data
is provided from that node so that's
like a good solves the problem of when
you are sharing stuff from when one wave
up to another web app those nodes are
like the second person is still able to
fetch data even if the first one goes
offline because the data is still
existing on the delegated node so it's
like an improved preload and that's like
it's not even close to to opinion it's
more like a hot potato you're just
holding it for a bit until yep yeah it's
like when you share something can you
close your laptop you still want this
person who you send like a link or
something to be able to reach the data
that's like a short-term delegated
routing and for a longer term that will
be like a really protocol and and
rendezvous which means people will be
able to chew gum question so you ask
those notes give you some peers and then
how do you connect to those peers to
catch them so that that's when we
preload kicks in so you bet you ask when
you get those peers you can ask the
delegate to also pull up that content on
itself and then you are already
connected to the delegate so you can
fetch data from the delegate I believe
there's like a small window that we
don't address yet using delegated
modules I think that that's related to
fetching remote data when I ask
something from great way not sure how to
how specifically we want to go in there
but there's like an issue on the report
of the
jealously p2p delegated content routing
module so so we are effectively making
Elliott nodes really and we always have
active connections to those nodes
yeah so it's like the delegated routing
is just like like simple solutions for
now until we have like a proper realized
because the way delegate works it's very
naive it just like prefetches specific
block and we assume it that the block
will be there for some time either for
someone else to fetch or for asked to
fetch from this node immediately
something that's more advanced is a
mixture of rendezvous and relays when we
get more distributed protocol of peers
meeting at some remote rendezvous point
and then realizing they both can talk
WebRTC for example and then they could
upgrade the connection and talk directly
but until we have that that that's why
we need delegated routing first okay so
what's the problem right now connecting
directly besides I know not having
WebSocket what's the problem of
connecting directly through WebSockets
to whatever Pierre has what if the if we
if true like the delegated Peru think we
get notified about this Pierre has the
block you want and that Pierre has like
WebSocket address there's no problem we
can directly connect to it the problem
is that WebSockets like web browser node
is not able to open web sockets like for
listening we can just like establish
outgoing ones so if there's like a go
ipfs node
exposing WebSocket transports we can
connect to that yeah but that's what I'm
saying so you use the delegates to ask
okay give me peers that have the blocks
and inform me also if they have
WebSockets and then you get that
information on the browser yep and then
you go through the list and connect to
all of them or at least ones that have
WebSockets general that that we can do
right now oh yeah totally and I the
problem is I've been looking at that as
part of the work I'm doing and brave and
the problem is that there is not not
that many peers listening on WebSockets
because that requires either requires
setting up certificate and using like
manually configuring a WebSocket
transport in go ipfs or someone just
enabled unencrypted web socket and
that's a problem because if you are
running JS ipfs on the https you are not
able to connect oh yeah sure yeah so
that's like if someone has a question
why go ipfs it's not listening on
WebSockets by default that's why because
by default it's not unencrypted and most
of websites are on HTTPS which means
they are not able to establish
connection to unencrypted web sockets
sorry one more question so most of our
network is behind nets and we rely on to
rely on relates to actually get the data
from those fields right so if we get
place some relays to enable WebSockets a
might improve a little bit the situation
instead true or yeah totally if we
especially like if we have at some point
to it I believe the plan is for the
bootstrap nodes to be also like relays
and to also listen on WebSockets and
people could run their own so that could
be or should be like a linked package so
you both expose web web sockets on the
certificate to the network you act as
out to relay and if more and more people
are institutions run those that will
totally improve the health of the
network and especially if you are
running Jessica facing web browser that
that note would be able to connect to
more peers but I don't think that's a
realistic to expect that will solve the
problem we will need still the outer
relays we will still need to have this
rendezvous and protocol upgrades but
it's like a path right we want to move
away from centralized signaling servers
to more like federated model for web
browser thanks that was super
interesting I know both more and less
about delegated routing and relays now
that they are sometimes the same and
different I have one more question about
this what is it seems like there's a
staged approach towards landing some of
these things we're doing delegated
brother first as a temporary workaround
before we get full really support what
is the time frame for really support and
what's blocking
I believed
still being discussed on the issue I
linked but more or less I believe we
want actually sunset WebSockets
until we have a public infrastructure of
both relays and rendezvous protocol like
node supporting rendezvous protocols
because we right now people are using
WebSockets star for the things that
those things will provide but we cannot
expect people to run their own right now
people usually when they start playing
with ideas or p2p they use signaling
WebSockets start signaling from the
readme that we provide for the community
to experiment and play with so at least
we should we to start experimenting with
this we need to create a new
infrastructure using those replacements
random in parallel long story short I
believe that's like one at least one or
two quarters of work to get to the point
when we run run them confidently for
some time and then we can talk about
like solid like shutting down those
nodes or just like sunsetting them while
the infra taking and uh I hold back on
the number of realizing you would you
see the same problem the same problem
happening run was basic signaling then I
mean it means that bandwidth
whatever really
three years will and the same problem so
I have a bunch really are very still
I believe we lost Hugo yeah it sound
like the question is there when the
effort team roll back a bunch of number
relay servers last month because of some
problems how are we gonna void healing
those same problems as we add new relays
yeah so the problem we had with realized
before was those relays were used for
actually pushing the data all the data
had to went through those relays and we
started it as an experiment and there
were no other relays on the network and
finding them is expensive when it comes
to bandwidth because like actual data
goes through those relays the plan to
mitigate that is to both run those
relays but give additional protocol for
nodes to upgrade to peer-to-peer
connection so for example when I have to
know
jaesik FS nodes running in a web browser
by default though those both nodes are
not able to talk to each other they will
talk to each other through some relay
however once those nodes are able to
talk to each other they can realize hey
we both can talk WebRTC so at that point
those those nodes can upgrade the
related connection to the peer-to-peer
one and that would save the bandwidth
for relays because those peers would
just use relays for like a rendezvous
point there's a when we talk about this
there is like often like a mixing of
rendezvous and relay because sometimes
as single machine single node can act as
both so the idea is to take off some bar
bandwidth burden for all
realize by having this protocol for
upgrading connection to peer-to-peer
once those peers discover each other's
addresses not sure if that helps
I hope you go we'll watch this and get
his answer
you
I got a quick question about the
rendezvous so are there plans to be able
to make that happen through browser
nodes as well so for example you know
I'm connected to a pier that this other
person's not connected to we're
communicating through WebRTC can I help
them connect with this other person
as far as I remember being there like
the rendezvous will be similar to the
way being outer relay is so you can mark
yourself as a rendezvous point to others
but that quad coating on that I'll catch
up on reading those specs as well but I
believe it will be an opt-in cool
you
all right we have about 20 minutes left
and two topics on the edge in the left
so let's move on to IP anise in web
browsers assuming you go how did this
sighs I was just curious
hey you want me to talk about it yeah
what's up okay so can I share my screen
it's right all yours thank you I have a
tracking issue all right oh yeah my
clothes maybe about the whole I penis
awareness and there were which in the
last quarter we kind of did a
experimental implementation of it and
right now in this quarter the objective
is to make it like production ready and
deploy it to everyone globally but it
needs to be in a way that it holds up
like we don't lose records database
established and stable everything like
to correctly deploy the name servers and
all that stuff and that's the work that
needs to be to happen this quarter plus
a couple of at least on share side a
couple of tweaks and that the cold still
needs like the one we were we were
talking about supporting DNS over HTTP
of a debt and one other thing which is
adding some
or for this on the go side is also tech
tips for this quarter Dominic is already
has already a preliminary implementation
of the Robert that Miss rural over DNS
but it's still in early stages and we
need to still make its lands in in the
wacky effects and right now me and
Nadine were we're talking about
extracting happiness completely out of a
BFS in go and Jess some guys from the
thirteen need this to be able to kind of
in some of the service don't actually
know the complete go up if s so these
are the tasks that are going to happen
this quarter and we like we won't belong
it have this ready right at the end
because there's still some some tasks to
do some way to go probably Jess will
have it soon let's go up go up effects
will take a little bit longer
hopefully managed to read this done by
the end of quarter can go but at least
Jess I'm from that's its own we also
have the DNS for our available to any
everyone any questions about this I got
a quick question about extracting I
penis related logic from the main ipfs I
know that the gate the code responsible
for gateway is planned to be extracted
from go IP affairs as well though is
there like a discussion of making it
like a sort of following a single
convention of where to cut out the stuff
how to shape up those new api's yeah no
not yet no the way we are thinking about
it's the same way that we kind of have
the repo extracted from the GSA BFS
i--but Ness will be just the same
mm-hmm it can work standalone but inside
yes I me advice is just I require away
it just required and it the API will be
designed publishing never resolved at
its particulars are you like extracting
just IP NS or is there a like a plan to
extract staff that's handling things
like DNS link and other naming things in
go ipfs yeah that's that's another
that's where we are kind of stuck okay
forgiving about what's naming what's I
penis what's not reaching a conclusion
about its to see what gets extracted and
what keeps what what else we keep inside
I will go or just waifus yeah I asked
because like I remember briefly some
discussions during Caiaphas camp that
some people who wanted to like use DNS
link or IP NS without actually using
ipfs that's that that's why we want to
extract mmm
thank you there were others questions
about happiness I have a question I am
curious once this set of changes lands
what is that landscape look like for
people using this is this primarily a
performance benefit what do we get
besides I know from the previous
discussion we get a lot of local and
that
privacy from moving to this and it
sounds like we also get a lower also
some lower maintenance burden because
communication and resolution will be
using maybe a more unified approach but
what else do we get out of these changes
I think you basically everything well we
we get in one single router support for
like global use over the internet and we
get privacy with DNS overage CVS we
don't use any of the current like DHT
network to do anything with this role so
it's kinda not as much as a centralized
scan as the HD but it's like streamline
everything is already known by everyone
because you ness is an all tech yeah
it's it's super fast
and yeah the user will all will have
will have available different routers
and the thing is he gets I heard the
response for the decentralized response
you need to choose between I love with
DNS you get is which are some of the
bank's already made free my break and
you hear me
I can action yeah it was a little
there's a little choppy better you got
it so we get based 32 subdomain for
everything you publish a new you also
get some like you evolve in monthly some
of the mains that it can serve
nope the hard stop okay am I like you
are did I answer you a question yeah
yeah I have a follow-up question to that
question which is you said there's a the
users now are making a choice between
the fast option be fast centralized
option or the decentralized option do we
have plans to make that a little bit
more dynamic so instead of a binary
either/or a choice that will be
dynamically fallback so if you choose
the fast centralized option and that
fails due to state state actors may be
walking certain xena then it would fall
back to this lower decentralized option
yeah we have a plan to out to all twine
the lids right now I don't think we will
implement it completely we will define a
single strategy to publish and result
but the plan is to add more options and
like a callback thing that you get that
user the user gets to receive the other
responses that come from different
routers so basically you can choose to
always get the the first one but you
have like a hook to the other ones and
then you can decide what you want to do
either you use the first one or you wait
for the others whatever you want to do
thank you are there any other questions
for though we've got 10 minutes left and
one mortgage into item who added the
item about the peers for you
esmie is gonna be really fast so no
worries we're almost done so this is an
issue that all he created yesterday I
believe I just had a quick question
about let's ignore the first item
because that's kind of irrelevant how
would you guys sort locations what what
seems most logical there
locations do you know not as IP
addresses or actually have the textual
description so we've actually got the
text description well it's a mix right
you have a lot of unknowns here and then
you have somewhere it's a city in a
country
so they were wanting to sort by a fixed
location sorting but I'm curious about
like what you guys think logically works
for sorting location names would it be
sorting by the country and then so
country and then city so you'd see the
cities alphabetically but in order of
countries or yeah I'm trying to figure
out what makes the most sense there if
so if you were doing it by basically
place names then I do think country and
then said he would make sense it would
make more sense if we listed it as
United States
Fairfield than if we listed it as
Fairfield United States but that doesn't
make sense to me the other thing we
talked about on an earlier call is that
it would be more interesting for us to
see the highest latency like which might
be yeah yeah that's actually I
understand correctly so that's the order
if we weren't trying to do with my
name's I'd say by latency particularly
useful smallest something yes something
about the location is that we have a
special type of location which is
unknown and I believe like those
unknowns should be at the very end yeah
I agree
so like you resolve like countries and
cities like lexicographically however
like unknown should land at the very end
otherwise we we get like very not known
interesting list at the very top yeah
well and it's it looks like it resolves
these over time so a lot of things will
be in unknown initially but over time
they change to actually their actual
location as they figure out where that
the IP is based okay well that's good to
know I'll go ahead and take that
direction on that on the chats Eric at a
close distance from ya Joe do your your
brought your browser-based GPS lookup
and done by a geographical distance
which made totally not aligned with
latency distance yeah it'll be
interesting to see how that aligns
though that could be cool to a sort like
that
I like that approach but would it be
confusing cuz it wouldn't look like
there's order there right that's not
that's not the default yeah I feel like
yeah that's a novelty that's a novelty
sorting okay these other columns are
sortable as well which gets a little bit
weird because it doesn't I don't know
that all of the other columns make sense
to sort by any any ideas or opinions on
these other sort options or what you
would expect to see here
okay well that's that's good that's fine
I guess nobody cares then we'll address
it when it becomes an issue
perfect yes you know latency is wait and
see I think that's probably the most
important one how you bowl one yeah yeah
cool
thanks guys yeah thank you if some if
some of the headers are clickable and
others aren't we might want to visually
differentiate them perhaps you know
underlining the ones that are maybe yeah
yeah I can look into that the the
sorting is built into the table
component that we're using here I'll see
if they have options about how to
display what's selectable and what's not
you
can I just say that I'm digging how
engaged in reek is because I want you to
be that interested when I present
something that's my hope that I can
aspire to that earn that level say
thanks for self advocating before you
speak you can request that level of
interest goodbye Carrie nice to see you
is there anything else on the agenda
today that people would like to talk
about since we're all here we got six
more minutes would you like to sing one
of the folk songs of your people Eric I
know Chicago's got something cool
Chicago folk songs they're all about
gangsters and pizza is trying to satisfy
the cliches that are you know in the
house yeah there's some history there in
that case I know singing today but maybe
next time that will bring us a song it
drive by Al Capone's grave yesterday I'm
a living driving cliche Chicagoan but it
was only because it's right on the way
to where I had to go and it's very I
would not plan a trip explicitly for
that by the way it's pretty
disappointing all right thanks everybody
see you next week